Previously
on Sleepy Hollow...
Katrina has chosen to
side with the enemy.
- Now.
- No!
This is not your fault.
No. It's yours.
Katrina!
Lieutenant!
The Traveler Spell, it worked.
Clearly, she's touched.
Put her in shackles
so she causes no harm.
I have information.
There's only one
person I'll talk to...
Captain Ichabod Crane.
Rifle!
Fire!
Stay on them.
Make certain 37th
receives these supplies.
Front moves north in an hour.
This battle's far from over.
Raise your hand.
It's not him.
Again, any Hessian soldiers
with a mark on their hand,
I want to hear of it.
Captain Crane.
Private.
There's a woman in
holding at the fort.
Claims she has important
information about the war.
Who is she?
We're not certain.
At first we thought her
to be a runaway slave,
but her demeanor, clothing
and attitude are unusual.
Very well,
have Donovan question her.
He did.
She'd like to speak
with you and you alone.
Well, that's unfortunate.
I'm under specific orders
from the highest office
not to leave the battlefield.
She seemed to
know that, Captain.
Said it was
about your mission.
A Hessian soldier
with a bow on his hand.
Oh, Crane.
Thank God you're okay.
Captain Crane.
Mmm.
Ms?
Mills. Abigail Mills, Captain.
You address me
as if we've met.
No, sir, we haven't met yet.
But...
I was drawn from battle.
Because I was told
you had information
concerning a Hessian soldier
with a mark upon his hand.
The Horseman.
You're gonna meet him
on the battlefield very soon.
Good. I shall cut him down.
Agreed, you will.
But he's like no
one you've ever faced.
He's gonna kill you, too.
Trust me, I know the endgame.
I know how this plays out.
Your turn of phrase
is most confounding.
Speak plainly, madam.
Look, I have very
reliable information.
You get me out of here,
and I'll explain everything,
okay?
Ms. Mills,
I can't discern
from whence you came,
but here we abide by the law.
We do not get out
and then explain ourselves.
The law is habeas corpus.
You violated it
by locking me up
here without a cause.
Only it's not
applicable to me.
For another
hundred years, right?
You have no
tangible information.
Good day.
The Horseman is
not working alone.
He has an ally now.
One equally as dangerous.
A woman to make sure
you die on that battlefield.
Who is this ally?
Captain, they're
calling for your return.
It says,
"Hessian reinforcements
have launched
a counterattack,"
doesn't it?
Their leader,
masked, on horseback,
carrying a broadax.
I'm telling you,
I know things.
I have faced this
Horseman before.
I know his ally.
You take me with you.
You cannot defeat
them without me.
Ichabod?
Ichabod.
Has anyone seen Ichabod Crane?
I heard he was
mortally wounded.
Katrina,
your husband isn't here.
What?
He was in battle.
He was cut down
by the Horseman,
and brought to this very bed.
No, ma'am, Captain
Crane was called away.
How?
A mysterious slave woman,
claiming to
have enemy secrets.
This woman,
did she mention her name?
Ms. Mills, perhaps?
Aye, Abigail Mills.
Do you know
where they are now?
They never returned.
She saved him from
the worst of it we've seen.
This Hessian,
he was like
something from hell.
Sir? Wait, wait.
Whiskey?
This is no time for a drink.
Madam, if you cannot
handle your surroundings...
Alcohol is a disinfectant.
It'll do him more
good on the outside.
This one.
Decapitations.
Mmm-hmm.
I'm sure you've noticed
the wounds are cauterized.
That's impossible.
Their weapons must
have been heated.
Weapon.
The Horseman
carries a broadax,
heated to 400 degrees.
You believe one
man did all this?
He's no man, he's a demon.
He's Death.
All right.
These men do not need
your fanciful tales,
and nor do I.
Ms. Mills, precisely
what is it you're after?
I'm trying to stop
the Horseman and his ally
from killing you.
So listen,
I know you've seen
things in this war
that you cannot explain.
General Washington has
put his trust in you.
He told you this
revolution isn't just a war
about the future
of this country.
It'll determine
the fate of every man,
woman and child.
How could you
possibly know this?
I do because you told me.
No. No, we've never met.
You're right, not yet.
But we will in 200 years.
I'm sorry, is this what
you've been intimating?
You're from the future?
I know, it sounds insane.
Completely insane.
And no less insane to me.
But here I am
on a revolutionary
battlefield in 1781.
Look around.
You would have
died if I hadn't
pulled you from
this battlefield.
But now we have
another problem.
The fact that you didn't die
may very well
have screwed up
history forever.
This makes no sense.
You say you're
here to save me.
Yet I'm supposed to die.
You were.
You were saved,
suspended in time,
until we met,
but now everything,
the fate of the country,
the fate of the mission that
Washington assigned you,
the fate of our
mission together.
Future is off the rails.
Who are you?
You had no grounds
to abandon your post.
Colonel Sutton,
the battle had subsided,
and I was under the impression
I was to question this woman.
I never gave such orders.
Apologies, sir, but...
Join the 12th
Regiment traveling north.
And do not abandon your men
without a direct order.
Sir.
What will become of her?
You want her?
Buy her at auction.
Colonel,
that is not what I meant.
She knew of
the Hessian attack.
Her clothes are
of foreign design.
Her accent is...
It alludes to
upstate New York,
but is quite slipshod.
In my estimation, she is,
or was, a British agent.
What do you suggest?
I take her back
to Fort Hudson,
conduct an interrogation.
Then you decide
how we proceed.
She is a distraction.
I need every man in the field.
And her?
She goes to an encampment
for runaway slaves.
Then perhaps I
could transport her.
It could save us another loss,
which we cannot afford.
And at the very least,
provide some
answers about today.
Report in the moment
you've signed for her release.
Thank you, sir.
Crane.
Your Oxford
degree and connections
are not going to
save you next time.
Deserters face a firing squad.
Never realized
riding in a carriage
would be so uncomfortable.
Thank you.
For what?
You do realize
I've been instructed
to escort you
to an encampment.
I saw the way that
Sutton treated you.
The fact that you
went out on a limb
to escort me means
that you believe me.
It's three miles
to the encampment.
You have until then
to bear proof to your story.
What would you like to know?
We win the war,
Washington becomes
the first president...
Impossible. He swore
never to hold public office.
But also
impossible to disprove.
So if we really
are partners in...
2015.
The year of our Lord, 2015,
what do you know of me?
Well, Katrina inspired you
to abandon your
allegiance with the Crown.
But when Abraham Van Brunt
couldn't pick out
the right engagement
necklace for her, you did.
But she couldn't hide
her feelings for you anymore.
And you couldn't
hide yours for her.
Is this the story
His Majesty's spies
have on record?
I don't know.
'Cause I'm not a spy.
And if I were,
I'd be pretty peeved
off on the flimsiness
of the "I am from
the future" cover.
Suppose I were to entertain
the notion of time travel
and a Horseman of Death.
Hmm.
What do you propose
we do in order to not,
as you elegantly put it,
screw up history forever?
I'm still trying
to figure that out.
On the face of it,
it's an impossible situation.
But that's what we do.
We?
We.
Yes.
We take on the impossible
and we figure a way out.
An intractable task.
Do we have help?
My sister and a captain.
And we turn to...
We turn to books.
Mostly written by people
who are alive now.
Washington,
Jefferson, Franklin.
If, and I stress "if"
with extreme veracity.
If I were so inclined,
General Washington
and Thomas Jefferson
are in Virginia.
Not an option.
What about Franklin?
Recently returned from France.
Honestly, if anyone
can back up my story,
help us, it's him.
Franklin will
know what to do next.
To Mr. Franklin!
Brace yourself.
I know it is you
under that mask, Abraham.
I know why you are here.
You are searching
for the same man as I.
I know you have
every reason to doubt me,
after what I did to you.
But Ichabod has
betrayed me, too.
He has joined
with another woman
and together they're
a formidable foe to us both.
So they both must die.
Let me help you find them
and kill them.
That took a really long time
to get three miles.
I suppose there
are flying carriages
in the second millennia.
Only for long distances.
I was being sarcastic.
That's gonna be a Starbucks.
A what?
Coffee house.
That livery stable, too.
Why?
I don't know.
People drink a lot of coffee.
Afternoon.
Mr. Leon. Ma'am.
You know them?
'Tis a small town.
Providing I do not die,
or become suspended in time,
I'll have a lot of
explaining to do.
They've never seen
a woman in trousers.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
I had to do the same thing
when you popped out of a cave.
I was headed to Quantico.
The FBI, the federal police.
Most of us oppose
a national police force.
Yeah?
Well, the point is
I thought I was
heading to bigger things
than Sleepy Hollow
and it turns out
Sleepy Hollow was
where the action is.
Ms. Mills...
Wait!
I cannot promise
Mr. Franklin's response.
But if he does
not receive us well,
they shall lock us both up.
Ichabod.
What do you want?
Bonjour.
But what of my other ideas?
Did libraries catch on?
- One in every neighborhood.
- Splendid! Splendid.
Universities?
Hospitals? The post office?
The Franklin stove?
Bifocals? Swim fins?
All still around.
You're even on the $100 bill.
Uh-hmm.
A hundred.
How about that, Ichabod?
A hundred-dollar bill.
What is Jefferson on?
Two-dollar bill.
The two?
The two...
Does anyone even use the two?
Sounds cumbersome.
I think that's
quite enough, thank you.
No, it is not.
We're standing in
front of a woman
who's two centuries
ahead of us.
Brilliant.
Educated. Well-spoken.
What is your profession?
A sheriff's detective.
An officer of the law.
Ichabod, everything
we're striving for here,
fighting with our dying breath
to create for this country
a free land of opportunity
for all Ms. Abigail Mills
represents.
She is the American dream.
Am I to assume you
believe all this?
When I was in England,
I heard rumors about
the powers of
the Grand Grimoire.
Even evil feared
the repercussions
of time travel
and dared not attempt it.
Ms. Mills claims
a woman is here to kill me,
and that our fates
are entwined with that
of the entire war.
Who is this woman?
A witch, actually.
Oh, she's a witch now.
You left that bit
out when you told me.
Ichabod, fetch my Almanack.
It's in the study on
the third floor. Please.
Go. Now.
Oh.
I know what this is.
And it works. Thank you.
We don't have much time.
This witch...
I noticed you avoided
disclosing her name.
Do you know her?
It's Katrina.
Katrina Crane?
Mmm-hmm.
We tried reasoning with her,
but she was so
crazed with grief
after her son died...
The Grand Grimoire
cannot heal her guilt.
It can only cause
more destruction.
This complicates things.
So do we get
the Grimoire from her?
No.
Forget Katrina,
forget the Horseman.
We must reverse
the Traveler Spell,
which, essentially,
will undo everything
that's happened
since you and Katrina arrived.
As if none of
this ever existed.
So I'd go back to
my natural timeline?
How?
Specifics elude my grasp,
but it's my understanding,
for a brief period,
all spells can be undone.
But time is short.
Where to?
To consult with
a more informed
mind on the subject.
To Fredericks Manor.
Fredericks Manor?
Yes, to Mrs. Grace Dixon.
She's my ancestor.
Huh.
Prepare to meet
her in the flesh.
Mr. Franklin,
I intend to tell
Crane about Katrina.
No.
In the future, we've learned
that it works better
when we're honest
with each other.
But this is the past.
Of all the impossibilities
we discussed,
this is the one he's
least ready to accept.
Trust me, I've been
grooming him for years.
How many people know
about this secret war?
There are levels.
I'm surprised you
haven't encountered
others in your era.
Really...
Tonight we have
but one mission.
To return to Fredericks Manor
and put the world back
the way it was meant to be.
Ichabod. Ready the horses.
We're going to
Fredericks Manor.
Oh, good. You made a plan.
We figured it out.
My ancestor, Grace Dixon,
would know how to
reverse the spell.
That makes perfect sense.
Everybody down!
Abigail! Get the guns!
Ben.
Crane.
Crane!
Fire!
Fire at the Franklin home!
Hurry! Hurry!
Hurry!
Crane.
We have to go. Now.
Do you have
the slightest idea of
the damage we've
caused this nation?
Yes.
Because I know the future.
We have to get back
to Fredericks Manor
and reverse it.
You heard what Franklin said.
Franklin is dead.
The most influential
man in the war effort
is dead, thanks to me.
Our union with
France is in jeopardy,
the rules he was authoring
to govern this land
remain unfinished.
And you schemed,
you played upon my
friendship with Franklin,
upon his predilection
for the supernatural,
and you led a Hessian assassin
to his very doorstep.
He wasn't after Franklin.
He was after us.
Nonsense!
You have to believe
you are that
crucial to this war.
The Horseman is pursuing us
because you and I are
the only ones
who can fix this.
We are partners.
We're partners?
Mmm-hmm.
You talk about
this partnership
and about this bond
and yet you keep from
me vital information
of the very thing you claim.
We're partners?
Then tell me
what you discussed
with Franklin in private.
If I were lying to you,
I wouldn't say
what I'm about to say.
But since the fate of
the world depends
on you believing me...
The Horseman's ally,
the witch...
Is your wife Katrina.
May God have
mercy on your soul.
Crane, wait.
She's pregnant with your son.
You'll see for yourself.
That's it.
Hey, Crane, look at
my cell phone.
It's the black
rectangular thing that
they confiscated from me.
The password is
your birthday.
Look into the photos
for our selfie. Crane!
Captain, listen! Crane!
Crane!
Colonel.
I do not understand.
You had a direct order
to transport her
to the encampment.
I was acting under
promising information
that she gave.
And you took her to
Benjamin Franklin.
She knew intimate details...
Between our
losses this morning
and the loss of
our key diplomat,
this may be
the most tragic day
in the course of the war.
Is she secured?
Yes, sir.
However, I do not
believe she is a spy.
Her rantings are lunacy.
She needs care.
Go home.
Sir...
The 12th Regiment...
You have been
relieved of duty.
Permission to speak...
You are lucky
I do not hang you for treason.
I understand
Washington himself
will send for you.
Dismissed.
Katrina?
What are you doing here?
Katrina.
You startled me.
You surprised me, my darling.
Why are you not with your men?
I've had a wretched day.
I was drawn from
battle by a madwoman.
A madwoman?
And where is she now?
I suspect she'll be
sent to an asylum.
Or hanged.
Rosemary.
Sage
and sweet wine.
I've seen you
prepare this for patients
who are bearing children.
My love, are you...
With child?
Ichabod, this tincture
is for Liza Putnam next door.
She is due any day now.
I hope that does
not disappoint you.
Still, how might I find
this poor madwoman?
As a nurse,
I may be of service to her.
Captain Crane.
Captain,
General Washington requests
your immediate presence.
Very good.
Thank you.
Might I have
a moment before you depart?
The general
was quite insistent.
I will return.
Ride ahead of me.
There's someone
I must visit first.
Ho, there.
The woman's personal effects.
Where are they?
Keep what you fancy.
Has Sutton transferred her?
Not yet.
He was planning to
pay her a visit though.
Huh.
God's wounds.
The password is my birthday.
What devilry is this?
I fail to understand why you
can't simply
take this picture.
'Cause then it
wouldn't be a selfie.
Selfie?
The narcissism
of your generation
never ceases to astound.
Ms. Mills.
As if posterity requires
me to document that
this morning I...
Ate a plate of waffles.
And how long did people back
in your day sit
for an oil painting?
I assure you,
we were not eating waffles.
We were forging a nation.
Everything she said...
Well,
what the 21st century lacks
in vision we make
up for in lack of...
One of the greatest minds
in the colonies has died,
and you are going
to answer for it.
Colonel, I'm on your side.
I've got information for you.
Of the same sort you had
for Captain Crane?
There have been
a lot of developments
in close quarter combat.
Are you threatening me?
Save your breath for
after you have tasted
America's true strength.
Now, that's true
American strength.
Ha!
I'm here to save you.
Though it appears Sutton
is in greater need.
Better late than never.
What made you come back?
I viewed a moving picture
in which you and I attempted
to create a still picture.
The selfie.
Yes. As you said.
Everything you said is true.
We're partners.
More than that. We're friends.
That's a relief.
Thank you.
There's a system of tunnels
beneath the town.
I know.
It gets us halfway
to Fredericks Manor.
I didn't want to believe you.
Then I went home to Katrina.
She must be with child.
I'm sure this is
all incredibly hard.
I saw a book.
It resembles your description
of the Grimoire.
And I thought...
She could be a witch.
Something was amiss.
I had to leave before...
I don't know.
Of all the things you told me,
and there are so many,
my wife wanting me dead...
Crane.
Captain.
It took a long time for
you to understand
her in the future,
if either of us fully do.
What you need to know
is the Katrina
that is here now,
the Katrina that
traveled back in time,
is not the same
woman that you know.
There was a time
she was good
and she loved you.
She saved my life.
Yours, too.
That Katrina's gone.
The seeds must
have been there.
How did I not see it?
We're all blind to what we do
and don't want to believe.
Is that why you chased
Katrina back in time?
You knew I'd not
survive without you?
To be fair,
I didn't have
time to think about
whether it was
a one-way ticket.
Fredericks Manor.
Now, if Grace can
undo this Traveler Spell,
perhaps we can
set things right.
Whatever right is now.
Thank you.
It's much better.
Tell me more about this spy.
She ambushed me.
Then escaped.
Do not worry.
When she scratched you,
she left a little bit
of her blood behind.
Is this necessary?
It is,
in order for me to find her.
She's headed to
Fredericks Manor.
How are you privy
to such information?
Why, it's simple, really.
I'm a witch.
Ah! Captain Crane.
Mrs. Dixon.
Forgive the intrusion.
Grace.
May we...
Come in.
It's really you.
Sorry. Um...
I just always
dreamt of this moment.
I just never thought
I would actually be here.
Have we met?
Sort of.
I meant...
How do I say this?
Um...
Your spirit.
My name is Abigail Mills.
Actually...
Grace Abigail Mills.
We're related.
Yeah.
Only a couple of
centuries apart.
Oh, my Lord.
It's you. The Witness!
I'm sorry. "Witness"?
That's the technical term
for us.
Of course it is.
How are you here?
Abigail,
I have so many questions.
So do I.
And God do I wish
we had more time.
But we don't.
Suffice it to say,
she is from the future.
She followed
a blood magic practitioner
to our time.
Benjamin Franklin said
that you would know how
to reverse the Traveler Spell.
The Abiero spell
will return you
to the moment
the spell was cast.
But it will require
a great deal of power.
I will have to
draw on the energies
that normally
shield this house.
So, we'll be
vulnerable to attack?
Yeah.
Then we should commence.
We found your journal.
My mom, my sister.
It's guided us,
helped us fight evil.
Everything that
we do is because of
the legacy that you started.
Well, I knew what transpired
in this house was important.
But was impossible to know
if it would be remembered,
saved or wind up
in the proper hands.
Sometimes all it takes is
to put pen to paper
to make a difference.
It's the Horseman and Katrina.
The hex guarding the house
won't hold long.
- I'll delay them.
- Crane?
You will die out there.
If you succeed,
it won't matter.
And if you do not,
there will be greater problems
than my death.
- I'll go with you.
- No!
For the spell to work,
you must stay with me.
Listen to me.
No matter what the course
of fate and no matter
how I get there,
I look forward to
experiencing your America.
It will be
a pleasure to make your
acquaintance all
over again, Ms. Mills.
Yes?
It's just that you
don't speak to me
so formally in the future.
And what would you prefer?
Lieutenant.
Well, Lieutenant...
Let us change
the course of history again.
Is this level of intimacy
commonplace in 2015?
Yeah.
We hug it out.
Ah!
Before we part, please!
Look at the end of my journal.
Yeah, I've seen these pages.
They're empty.
Abigail, these are the most
important pages of all.
These are the pages
you will write.
The most crucial
battles still lie ahead.
The wards are down.
Go!
He's not gonna make it!
There's no time!
Read these words to
complete the spell.
No! No! No!
You cannot stop this!
No.
Thank you, Grace.
No! I was making
things right.
You brought us back here.
This is your doing!
Katrina, no!
She killed my son.
She dies.
Jeremy.
You had no choice.
Yes, I did.
We all did.
No, no! No! It's okay!
Abbie?
Don't shoot.
I don't want to die again.
Is it really you?
Henry's death
released my soul.
Katrina?
I'm sorry.
So, it's over.
This part is over.
But Grace told me that
this war is not over.
Grace?
I wish you were there.
She told me that
the most crucial battles
are still ahead of us.
This is why we're here.
All of us together.
Whatever's next,
we're there for each other.
You ready, Captain?
Ready, Lieutenant.